In this video I'll explain how sex and VX Liane can affect network scalability.
So here we see a group of VSX high hosts and just kind of picture these like their racks of hosts.
So I moldable racks of hosts and let's say I'm using the VST for distributed switch so I don't have
NSX in this scenario.
Well as I add more and more racks of hosts I have to add more and more switches and my Alair to network
has to spam all of these VSX I hosts then in this scenario we don't really have that many hosts.
So the impact really isn't that severe but what we want to bear in mind when we're talking about distributed
switches.
They cannot traverse a layer 3 physical network.
So I'm going to have to have all of these switches or connected via Lehre to with each other.
And again in a fairly small environment like this the impact isn't that substantial.
But what happens when my environment begins to grow.
So I've just added a bunch of hosts and as I add more and more ESX I hosts what happens is my Llyr to
network gets bigger and bigger and bigger.
I have more and more switches and all of these switches are part of the same layer 2 domain are all
connected to each other via layer 2 which means a couple of different things.
Number one my switches contain a MAC Address table and the more ESX hosts and virtual machines that
I have in my network the larger those MAC address tables are going to get and at a certain point there
may be so many entries in those MAC address tables that they might fill up.
So there's limited saleability from a MAC Address table perspective.
Put probably the more glaring concern here is what about spanning tree.
I've got so many switches and I'm going to have to interconnect the switches somehow.
And the likelihood of creating a loop in my lair to network grows as I add more and more switches.
So the letter to spanning tree domain is going to get larger and larger and larger.
And as a result it's going to be harder and harder for the switches to figure out how to design a loop
free typology.
And so all of these factors can limit the scalability of our physical network if we're not using Vieques
land and sex.
Now how does this change when we deploy NSX.
Well now we have the ability to insert a layer 3 device in the physical network.
So now I've inserted a router in the physical network basically cutting my lair to domain and has half
the switches are on one side of the router and the other half are on the other side.
And the impact of this change is going to be that the MAC address table and every single one of those
switches is going to be immediately cut in half.
All right.
The switches on the bottom don't need to know about the MAC addresses on top and the switches on the
top don't need to know about the MAC address is on the bottom.
So immediately I have the impact of cutting that MAC Address table in hand.
And the other major impact is my spinning tree domain.
It's also immediately cut in half by this round.
And this is not possible with a Vee's for a distributed switch.
Right.
We need VX saline to give us that encapsulation process and to give us those VX LAN tunnels so that
the traffic can flow through a router even if it's Leor to traffic and so my underlying network is now
my Lehre three network.
And remember that's what we refer to this this network on the of the physical switches and the physical
router share.
This is my underly physical network that interconnects all of the ESX hosts.
But the fact that I have a layer 3 underlay does not at all impact the operation of my logical switches.
I can still have the same logical switch on this ESX I host.
And on this ESX I host and they can communicate via Lerer to cars as that traffic leaves those hosts.
Its V xplain encapsulated and delivered to the top of the destination host.
Soviet sun has a major impact on the scalability of our physical network because we now don't have to
create these enormous layer to networks anymore.
We can divide up those Lehre two domains using routers.